{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f3\froman NewCenturySchlbk;}{\f4\fswiss Helv;}{\f5\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f6\fnil Souvienne;}{\f7\froman Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;
\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s252 \b\f7\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s253\sb360 \b\f5\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\sb360 
\b\f5\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\li720 \f7\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\f7\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-576\li576\tx576 \f7\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext2 List Normal;}}{\info{\author Tim N Roberts}
{\creatim\yr1994\mo5\dy19\hr11\min10}{\version1}{\edmins105}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern16504}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1008\margr1008\margt1008\margb1008\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\sb360 
\b\f5\ul\lang1033 \tab \tab \tab   I.   I N T R O D U C T I O N
\par \pard\plain \f7\lang1033 
\par SPIDER is a particularly challenging double-deck solitaire.  Unlike most solitaires, 
it provides extraordinary opportunities for the skillful player to overcome bad luck in the deal by means of careful analysis and complex manipulations.  The SPIDER program does not actually play the game for you, but rather takes the place of the cards (
by displaying the tableau on the screen) and keeping a record of the game so that you can follow out long lines of play without losing track of where you started from.  (Besides, it's a neat display hack.)
\par 
\par Section II of this documentation describes the r
ules of the game; section III describes the use of the program; section IV gives some "Spider problems" to provide a feel for the complexity that can arise (the problems are based on positions that arose in actual play).
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par [Copyright (c) 1989, Donald R. Woods and Sun Microsystems, Inc.]
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\sb360 \b\f5\ul\lang1033 \tab \tab       II.   R U L E S   F O R   S P I D E R
\par \pard\plain \f7\lang1033 
\par The object of the game is to build a stack of cards in the same suit from King to Ace and remo
ve the stack from the table to the stacks above.  When all eight stacks have been built and removed, you have won the game.  A more challenging version of this is to leave all eight stacks on the table until done instead of removing those that are complet
e to the stacks above.
\par 
\par One may move the next lower card onto a card of the same or different suit; however, one may only move contiguous cards of the same suit as a group.  For example, one may move the 5 of spades into either a 6 of spades or a 6 of hea
rts. Moving the 5 of spades onto the 6 spades is a better move since now the 5-6 of spades group may be moved as a unit where the 5 of spades, 6 of hearts group may not.  Also, moving the 4 of spades onto the 6 of spades is not a legal move.  A King may o
nly be moved into a space (or removed to the stacks above when the sequence K-Ace is complete) since there are no higher cards than a King.
\par 
\par For general strategy, one wants to try to create a "space" since this is the most flexible way to move cards aroun
d.  A space is where all cards in the table have been removed.  Note:  before dealing the next round, all spaces have to have at least one card in them.
\par 
\par Also, when moving the cards, it is generally to your advantage to move the highest cards first and the lowest cards last doing the obvious moves first.  For example, move a 5 of spades onto a 6 of spades, then Queen of hearts onto a King clubs before you 
move the 7 of clubs onto the 8 of hearts. Then you may choose to move 5-6 of spades group onto the 7 
of clubs.  The strategy is to combine the cards into same suit groups that may be moved as a unit.  Once the group 5-6 of spades has been created, it may be broken up by using the middle mouse button on the lower card.
\par 
\par More details about the game are below...
\par 
\par THE INITIAL TABLEAU.  Shuffle together two decks of cards (104 cards in all) and deal ten cards face down in a row.  Deal three more rows face down on the first.  Next deal one card face down on each of four piles (traditionally the leftmost four
, but it doesn't matter; for aesthetic reasons some people prefer the first, fourth, seventh, and tenth piles), for a total of 44 face-down cards.  Finally, deal one card face up on each pile.  These 54 cards constitute the initial tableau.  NOTE: In the 
description below, the card at the "bottom" of a pile is taken to be the last one dealt or played onto that pile, as opposed to the card that is underneath all the others in the pile.  Thus the "bottom" card is the one displayed bottommost on the
\par screen by the Spider program.
\par 
\par BUILDING.  All building is done in the tableau, there being no separate foundations.  On the bottom card of a pile may be placed any card of next-lower rank, regardless of suit.  (Cards rank King (highest), Queen, Jack, 10, 9, . . . , 3, 2, Ace.)  The bot
tom card of a pile is always available to be moved, as is any sequence of cards at the bottom of a pile that are consecutive and ascending in rank and of the same suit.
\par 
\par For example, suppose the 6, 5, and 4 of hearts are together a
t the bottom of a pile, with the 4 bottommost.  They may be moved as a unit, or the 4 can be moved by itself, or the 5 and 4 can be moved without moving the 6.  If the 6, 5, and 4 were moved onto a 7 of hearts at the bottom of some other pile, the four ca
rds could then be moved as a unit onto any 8; if the 7 were not a heart, however, then once the hearts were placed upon it it would not be available to be moved until the hearts had been moved from it (to another 7 or into a space; see below).
\par 
\par When all face-up cards have been removed from a pile, the bottom face-down card is turned up and becomes available for play.
\par 
\par SPACES.  When all cards have been moved away from some pile, the resulting empty pile is called a "space" or "hole".  Any card or sequence of cards available for moving may be moved into a space.  A King, or sequence headed by a King, can be moved ONLY in
to a space, and once moved there can never be moved out (except into another space, which doesn't accomplish anything) unless it is being removed entirely as described below.
\par 
\par THE HAND.  The 50 cards not dealt initially form the "hand".  Whenever you wish (typically, whenever you get stuck), you may deal a new row of ten cards from the hand face-up upon the piles.  NOTE: You are not allowed to do this if you have any spaces.  Y
ou must first fill them in.  Notice that these additional deals tend to introduce discontinuities in the piles; that is, you can get cards covering others that are not next-higher in rank.  If you get stuck after havin
g dealt the last of the five additional deals, you have lost.
\par 
\par OBJECT OF PLAY.  When you have assembled a complete suit of thirteen cards, in sequence from King down to Ace, at the bottom of a pile, you may remove the thirteen cards from the tableau entirely.  Cards so removed are never brought back into play; thus i
t is not always desirable to remove a suit when you have the opportunity (though it usually is), since it may pay to keep it around to aid in manipulating the other cards of that suit (recall 
that there are 26 cards in each suit).  The game is won if you manage to remove all eight suits.
\par 
\par If you find that a game is going so well that you're sure you're going to win, you can spice things up by trying to finish with as many completed suits as possible still in the tableau.  Hardest of all is to finish the game with each of the eight suits br
ought together in sequence from King down to Ace, with all of the cards still in the tableau.  Note that, once you start striving toward such a goal, you may make such a mess of the position that you won't be able to win at all!
\par 
\par SCORING.  Spider is a difficult game to master, and some players like to be able to evaluate their progress by scoring unsuccessful games.  No rules for scoring are in the literature, but the program implements the following rather arbitrary formula:  10 
points for each initially face down card that gets turned over; 15 additional points for each column where all the face down cards have been turned over (even if you don't manage to 
get a space); 2 points for each card that is sitting atop the next higher card of the same suit; 50 points for each completed suit removed from the tableau (in which case you do not also score for the 12 cards sitting atop next higher cards).  This yields
 a maximum score of 990.  If you win the game with 4 or more completed suits still in the tableau, add 2 points for each suit after the first three.  Thus winning with all eight suits still in the tableau yields a score of 1000.
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par [Copyright (c) 1989, Donald R. Woods and Sun Microsystems, Inc.]
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\sb360 \b\f5\ul\lang1033 \tab \tab   III.   T H E   S P I D E R   P R O G R A M
\par \pard\plain \f7\lang1033 
\par The stack of cards in the upper left of the Spider window represents the undealt cards (initially the full deck; later the "Hand").  The eight outlines to the right mark where the eight suits will go as you remove them from the tableau.  The rest of the w
indow is initially empty until you start a game.
\par 
\par To start a game, press the [New Gam
e] button or click either the left mouse button over the undealt cards.  Playing the game is handled entirely within the main window; the control panel provides a few ancillary functions, described later.  First, the main window:
\par 
\par If you press the left mouse button anywhere within or below a column of cards, it says you want to move as many cards as possible from that column.  If you then move the mouse to another column and let up on the button, the program moves as many cards as 
it can from the first column to the second.  (If there is no such legal move, the program says so.) Note that, unless the destination column is empty (i.e., a "space"), there is at most one choice for the number of cards to move.
\par 
\par If you instead use the second mouse button to select within a column, it says you want to move the card you're pointing at plus any cards covering it.  If these cards cannot be moved as a unit (i.e., they are not a sequence within a suit), the program say
s so.  Again, if you move the mouse to another c
olumn and release the button, the program moves as the selected cards to the destination.  The only time you need to use this method (instead of using left) is if you're moving cards into a space AND you wish to move fewer than the maximum permitted.

\par 
\par If you click the left button over a single column, the program tries to move the specified cards to "the obvious place" by trying the following choices, in order: (1) remove them if they form a completed suit, else (2) move them onto a card of the same su
it, else (3) move them onto a card of a different suit, else (4) move them into a space.  If it can't do any of these, it complains.
\par 
\par You can also remove a completed suit by selecting all 13 cards (using the left button), moving the mouse into the region of outlines above the tableau, and releasing the button.
\par 
\par To deal a new round, click any button on the facedown stack in the upper left.  The window footer shows you how many more deals remain.  Remember that all spaces must be filled before you can deal a new round.
\par 
\par If you click with any mouse button in the outline region where the removed suits go, the program will tell you which suits (if any) have enough cards face-up to form a complete sequence of thirteen.
\par 
\par The game also has a control panel for performing some less frequent operations.  Many of these also have keyboard accelerators:
\par 
\par [New Game], N or n:\tab Throws away the current game and start a new one.
\par 
\par [Backup: One Move], U or u: Undo the last move.  If you undo a move that revealed a previously unknown card, the program will chastise you.
\par 
\par [Backup: Start Over], A or a: Play the same hand again.  This will restart the game with the initial deck, discarding what you've already done.
\par 
\par [Backup: Replay], R or r:\tab Show all the moves made so far.  This can take a while, so any key or button press will abort it.
\par 
\par [Expand], E or e: Expand column.  This prompts the user to select a column, which is then displayed in textual form.  This is useful when the window cannot be made larger and the columns are very large.
\par 
\par [Locate], F or f:  tries to find a specified card or cards among the face-up cards in the tableau.  First specify the name of the card to look for by putting the rank and suit in the Name item.  (The ranks are A, 2, 3, ..., 10, J, Q, or K; you can also us
e T for 10.  Suits are C, D, H, and S.  Lower-case is permitted.)  If you omit the suit, [Locate] will look for all cards of the specific rank that are not already covered by a card of the next lower rank.  (Such cards are called "unused
", "free", or "available".)  For example, if you want to move a 9 out of some pile, you need either a space or a free 10 onto which to move it, so you could use [Locate] to find all free 10s.
\par 
\par [Score], S or s:\tab Shows the current score.
\par 
\par [File] is a stack; the default is [Save in File], which writes a file containing the current state of the game, including the original deck and all the moves made so far.  The name of the file is taken from the Name item.  The file also includes a human-r
eadable text representation of the current tableau, similar to those that appear in the examples below.
\par 
\par [File: Resume from File] reads a file created by the [File: Save in File] command.  The name of the file is taken from the Name item.  It can also read various partial files; in particular, if all but the first line of the file has been deleted, it will r
estore the most recent position and, if possible, the original deck (in case you want to Start Over), but it will not be able to Back Up over the moves.
\par 
\par [File: Resume from Selection] restores a position represented by the current text selection.  This is useful for loading positions from section IV, below.
\par 
\par The window also understands these additional keyboard commands:
\par 
\par D or d: Deals a new round.
\par 
\par L or l: Loads a saved game from the current PRIMARY selection.  If the selection is a file name, it will be loaded from that file.  Otherwise it will attempt to load the selection as position.  This is useful for loading positions from the examples in sec
tion IV.
\par 
\par W or w: Saves the current position in the filename contained in the PRIMARY selection.
\par 
\par ?: Gives a move suggestion.  This isn't necessarily the best move, but may be helpful for beginners.
\par 
\par #: Displays some game statatistics.
\par 
\par Q: Quit.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\sb360 \b\f5\ul\lang1033 \tab      IV.   E X A M P L E S   A N D   C O N U N D R U M S
\par \pard\plain \f7\lang1033 
\par In all the examples below, the tableau will be given here in the text as best as can be done within the limits of the character set.  For those who want to see the positions more graphically via the program,
 each example also starts with a line of apparent garbage that, if selected, can be read using the [File: Resume from Selection] command to display the position.  (The line is quite long and may wrap around onto more than one line when you display it; you
 have to select it all to restore the position.)
\par 
\par Some of these examples are extremely complex.  Novice players may wish to step through just the first example, to get an idea of how to play, and save the other examples for later.  The final example is a 
deck that is especially easy to win with (unless you're trying to win with all eight suits still in the tableau), so you might try that one to boost your confidence if you're having a lot of trouble getting anywhere.
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par J6m\\ZM^3>gU82j]`LGMFl8o0WeDimHa;d^1QcHGKQdQAZ6l;oK/QmbbBhNhiMiWe=FOH<jJ]T^1URFDdGj^_7TRgK7lFY52@aDCd1==>D >Kg74/^ YoT[/6 HCcF/P \\MNXm/Q EK25/k 9^0M/c KF0@W/N \\JHY/: 9GLR/L \\W8hH/2.
\par 
\par Here, to start you off, is an example of the beginning of a game.  We'll step through it and look at the rationale behind the recommended moves.  Here's the initial tableau:
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab 10d\tab  As\tab  --\tab  3h\tab  9s\tab  --\tab  Jh\tab  Qh\tab  --
\par  6d\tab \tab \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab \tab  7c
\par 
\par The two primary rules of thumb to bear in mind throughout the game, and particularly at the start, are (1) try to get a space, and (2)
 keep your options open.  The first rule should be fairly clear; the second leads to a few common strategic decisions.  First, given the choice, make a "natural" move instead of an "unnatural" one, where a natural move is one that brings together two card
s of the same suit.  This keeps our options open by allowing us to move the newly combined cards as a unit should we turn up an appropriate card.  Second, given the choice, move a card (or pile) that has more than one place it can go.  This keeps our opti
on
s open by allowing us to move it to the other place if for some reason we want to dig into the pile sitting in the first location.  Third, work from the top down.  Thus we move a 9 onto a 10 before moving an 8 onto the 9 (unless the latter move is natural
 while the former is not), since once we move an unnatural 8 onto the 9 we won't be able to move the 9.  Now, with these ideas in mind, let's look at the play of the above tableau.
\par 
\par Our highest-ranking move is Jack onto Queen, and it's also our only natur
al move, so it wins for sure.  We move the Jh from column 8 to column 9, and in this particular game we chance to turn up a 6s in column 8.  Now we have no natural moves.  We could try for the space by moving the 6s to column 10, but that move isn't going
 to go away, so instead we go from the top down by moving the 10d from 2 to 9.  This time we turn up a 4c.  No hesitation about this one!  We move the 3c from 7 to 2.  (Note that we still have the 4s onto which we can, eventually, move the 3h, so we're no
t giving up our option of digging into pile 5.  But even if we didn't have the other 4, making the natural move would be the better play.)  In column 7 the card turned up is a 2c, which we promptly move to column 2, turning up a 10h.  The tableau is now:

\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  4c\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab 10h\tab  6s\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  3c\tab  As\tab  --\tab  3h\tab  9s\tab \tab \tab  Qh\tab  --
\par  6d\tab  2c\tab \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Jh\tab  7c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 10d
\par 
\par Having once agai
n run out of natural moves, we revert to working from the top down, and move the 9s from 6 to 9.  This also follows the rule of moving a pile that has more than one place to go; if we find ourselves interested in digging through column 9 we can move the 9
s to column 7 instead.  But for now, since column 7 looks like a more likely place to dig, we'll bury column 9 a bit more.  In column 6 we turn up a Kc.  Since we have no place to move the 10d from column 9, we are unable to get pile 9 moved onto the newl
y revealed King.  Them's the breaks.
\par 
\par Continuing from the top down, we decide it's time to move a 6 onto the 7c.  Which 6 should we move?  Neither is natural, but the one in column 8 looks like a better one to move since we're only 3 cards away from getting a space in that column.  So we move
 the 6s from 8 to 10 and turn up a 6c.  We're getting low on things to do now; we can move the 3h or the As.  Going by the top-down rule, we move the 3h from 5 to 4, turning up a 2h, which we move onto the 3h (now in column 4).  This time we turn up a 9d:

\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  9d\tab  --\tab  --\tab  6c\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  4c\tab  --\tab  --\tab \tab  Kc\tab 10h\tab \tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  3c\tab  As\tab  --\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Qh\tab  --
\par  6d\tab  2c\tab \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Jh\tab  7c
\par  \tab \tab \tab  3h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 10d\tab  6s
\par  \tab \tab \tab  2h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  9s
\par 
\par We could now move the 9d from 5 to 7, but instead we choose to move the As from column 3, since there are two places to put it.  Column 4 is already unnatural, so we'll move it there.  The card turned up is the other As
.  We could move this Ace onto the other deuce, but this would lose us our option of moving the first Ace there should we want to dig into column 4, so we'll let the top-down rule take precedence and move the 9d.  But let's not be hasty!  Instead of movin
g the 9d from 5 to 7, we'll move the 9s from 9 to 7 and then move the 9d from 5 to 9; this puts the 9d with a 10d, which it can't hurt to do.  This time we turn up a Qh.  Since we're so close to a space now, we keep going by moving the Qh from 5 to 6, tur
ning up a 10d:
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab 10d\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab \tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab \tab  --\tab  --\tab  6c\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  4c\tab  As\tab  --\tab \tab  Kc\tab 10h\tab \tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  3c\tab \tab  --\tab \tab  Qh\tab  9s\tab \tab  Qh\tab  --
\par  6d\tab  2c\tab \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Jh\tab  7c
\par \tab \tab \tab  3h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 10d\tab  6s
\par \tab \tab \tab  2h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  9d
\par \tab \tab \tab  As
\par 
\par Only one move left to try: we move the As from 3 to 2, turning up a 7h.  Once again, we shuffle things around a bit so keep as many piles natural as possible; we move the 6s from 10 to 3 and the 6c from 8 to 10, turning up a 5d.  We move th
e 5d from 8 to 1 (natural) and turn up a 3s:
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab 10d\tab  --\tab  --\tab  3s\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab \tab  --\tab  --\tab \tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  7h\tab  --\tab \tab  --\tab  --\tab \tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  4c\tab  6s\tab  --\tab \tab  Kc\tab 10h\tab \tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  3c\tab \tab  --\tab \tab  Qh\tab  9s\tab \tab  Qh\tab  --
\par  6d\tab  2c\tab \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Jh\tab  7c
\par  5d\tab  As\tab \tab  3h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 10d\tab  6c
\par \tab \tab \tab  2h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  9d
\par \tab \tab \tab  As
\par 
\par We have no more moves (aside from useless maneuvers such as moving the 9d from 9 to 5), so it's now time to deal a new round.  We never did get a space, but we got two piles down to a single card each, so we 
are quite likely to get a space soon after the new deal.  This game is going somewhat better than average and will very likely be won with proper play.  If you actually do get a space in the first round, you're doing particularly well.
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par 1;]mcD96:2o6j1J7Fj>N/\\j?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?P O  DLV/7V[ N=^cfil 8_/R<3d9NC4I^SDY?F\\bfKl16[ k;]>Hhn ak\\k/Z\\2O[<@FkLPWZ[;>CdINS 9A C L75/1;\\aFJo.
\par 
\par Now, for your first "Spider problem", here is a relatively simple position.  In the tableau shown below, what should you do?  First off, what are your options?  On what should you base your choice?  (After the tableau is the "solution", so don't read furt
her until you're ready!)
\par 
\par 10h\tab (sp)\tab  --\tab  Ad\tab  --\tab  Qc\tab  --\tab  3s\tab  Qh\tab  --
\par \tab \tab  --\tab  7d\tab  --\tab  Jh\tab  --\tab  2s\tab \tab  --
\par \tab \tab  --\tab  6d\tab  Kh\tab 10d\tab  --\tab \tab \tab  --
\par \tab \tab  8s\tab  5d\tab  Qc\tab  6c\tab  --\tab \tab \tab  7d
\par \tab \tab  7s\tab  Qs\tab  Jc\tab  4c\tab  Qd\tab \tab \tab  6d
\par \tab \tab  6s\tab  Js\tab 10c\tab  3d\tab  Jd\tab \tab \tab  5d
\par \tab \tab \tab 10d\tab  9c\tab  2d\tab 10h\tab \tab \tab  4d
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  8c\tab \tab  Js\tab \tab \tab  3d
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  7c\tab \tab 10s\tab \tab \tab  2c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  6c\tab \tab  9s\tab \tab \tab  As
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  5c\tab \tab  8h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  4c\tab \tab  7h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab  6h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab  5h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  Qd\tab \tab  3h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab 10c\tab \tab 10s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  9c\tab \tab  8c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  8s\tab \tab  7h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  7s\tab \tab  6h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s\tab \tab  5h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s\tab \tab  4h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  4s\tab \tab  3h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  3s\tab \tab  2h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  2s\tab \tab  Ah
\par 
\par Solution:
\par 
\par First, the options.  There's no way to get through column 5 or 7 to turn up a new card.  (This should be pretty obvious; we'll save detailed analyses of this sort of thing for cases where it's not as clear.)  Nor does it do us
 any good to dig into column 4 or 6.   We don't have any complete suits showing, so there's no way we can try to put one together.  That leaves three fairly simple options: (1) we could move the 8-6s from column 3 into the space, turning up a new card, (2
) we could dig through column 10 (moving the Ace onto a deuce, the 2c into the space, 5-3d onto the 6s in column 3, 2c out of the space and back onto the 5-3d, and finally the 7-6d into the space) and turn up a new card there, or (3) we could fill in the 
space and deal a new round.
\par 
\par It's usually a good idea to turn up more cards when possible rather than bury everything under a new deal, so we'll discount the third option.  That leaves us with the choice of which column to dig through, 3 or 10.  The two are equally close to becoming 
new spaces (three face-down cards each), so that's not a consideration here.  Let's consider what the face-down card might be that will be revealed.  If it's a Jack, 4, or King, we can get back the space (which we'll have lost i
n the process of getting to the new card).  If it's a 9 or 8, we MIGHT get the space back right away; it depends on whether we moved the 8 (from column 3) or the 7 (from column 10) into the space.  Looking at the tableau, we see there are five 8's visible
, but only three 9's.  Thus it's more likely we'll turn up a 9, so we should go for column 3.  (Sorry for all this gory detail, but this is after all intended as an introductory example.)
\par 
\par So it looks like the best thing to do is move the 8-6s from column
 3 into the space.  But wait!  Suppose the card turned up isn't a Jack, 4, King, or 9, and furthermore isn't an Ace or 5 (which we would be able to move elsewhere immediately)?  Is there anything we can do ahead of time to hedge our bets?  Yes!  We can mo
ve the spade Ace from column 10 to column 5, then use the space to swap the deuces in columns 6 and 10 (move one deuce into the space, move the other deuce to the other column, and move the first deuce out of the space).  Now column 10 contains just the 7
 t
hrough deuce of diamonds, and if we chance to turn up an 8 in column 3 we can move the 7-2d onto it.  Note that we have to do this BEFORE we move the 8-6s into the space, since we need the space to swap the deuces.  In fact, in the game where this particu
lar tableau arose, the card turned up in column 3 was the diamond 8.  The preparations made in column 10 eventually produced not one but TWO spaces!  (Play it out using the program and see for yourself.)
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par ?jT\\Ne61gU/3`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?P LF^Q/lLQ7[]`8Qe^_ B\\^</D:[l6^cO  K/jc\\D= <\\e G`j/T;j_Qf9maEBo P/5Ql ^:[/eQWeU[>CO9M@4I] Q=Lh/C;aS2o D0/b6;[MEXM.
\par 
\par Turn up another face-down card WITHOUT dealing more cards or "using up" the space.  (You may, of course, use the space, so long as you are sure you can get it back no matter what the card turned up turns out to be.)  Note that there are enough clubs and h
earts showing to form complete sets of those suits.  Here's the tableau (again, the solution follows the tableau):
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab (sp)\tab  --\tab  Qh\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  Ks\tab  Jh\tab  --\tab  Jc\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  2s\tab  7h\tab  --\tab  8h\tab  --\tab  --\tab  Kh
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  As\tab \tab  As\tab  7h\tab  Kc\tab  --\tab  Qc
\par  Jc\tab  Kd\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  Qc\tab  Kc\tab  Jh
\par 10h\tab  9d\tab \tab  8d\tab \tab  8s\tab \tab  Jd\tab  7s\tab  Js
\par  9c\tab  8d\tab \tab \tab \tab  7c\tab \tab  5s\tab  6s\tab  3d
\par  8s\tab  7d\tab \tab \tab \tab  6c\tab \tab  4h\tab  Qh\tab  2c
\par  7d\tab  3h\tab \tab \tab \tab  5c\tab \tab  3c\tab  Js\tab  Ad
\par  6h\tab  2h\tab \tab \tab \tab  4h\tab \tab  2c\tab  8c\tab  8h
\par  5d\tab  Ah\tab \tab \tab \tab  3s\tab \tab  Ac
\par  3d\tab  2d\tab \tab \tab \tab  2s\tab \tab 10s
\par  2d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5c\tab \tab  9s
\par  Ah\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6d\tab \tab  8c
\par  9s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5h\tab \tab  7s
\par 10c\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4c
\par 
\par Solution:
\par 
\par First, we ascertain that we can't get a second space.  The only place where we might be able to do so is column 5, and to move the Q-Jh we need to find a King that doesn't already have a Queen on it.  (We'll call this a "free King", for short.)  There are
 three free Kings, but the one in column 9 is useless since we need another free King to get to it, and those in columns 2 and 4 are inaccessible since there are no free 3's.  Hence, whatever we do, we have to do it using only the one space.
\par 
\par Next, can we remove a complete set of clubs or hearts?  Well, hearts are out, because the only Kh showing is in column 10, and the only 10h is in column 1, and getting to each of them requires that we move a 3 onto a free 4.  Since there's only one free 4
 (in column 8), we lose.  How about clubs?  They don't work out, either, but the proof is trickier.  The only 9c is in column 1 and getting to it will require our sole free 4.  Thus we c
an't use the Qc in column 10, and must instead use the Qc from column 8.  To reach it we need a free 6; we have exactly one free 6, namely in column 9.  We CAN get to this 6, without losing the space, by a fairly convoluted sequence of moves.  You may wan
t to figure out how it can be done before reading on. . . .  Ready?  Okay, proceed as follows: 7h from 5 to 10, 10c from 1 to 5, 8c from 9 to 1, Js from 9 to 3 (into the space), 10c from 5 to 3, Jh from 5 to 9, 10c from 3 to 9, Js from 3 to 5, 10c from 9 
to 5, Q-Jh from 9 to 3, 7-6s from 9 to 4, and finally Q-Jh from 3 to 9, getting the space back.
\par 
\par Having determined that we can, if desired, obtain a free 6, let's get back to the question of the clubs.  The only 7c is in column 6, and getting to it requires a free 6.  But we need the free 6 to get to the Qc as well.  So we again lose.  We are thus re
duced to uncovering a card without removing any suits and without getting any more spaces.  Which column is it to be?  It obviously can't be a column containing
 a King, since (given that we can't remove any completed suits) the only place a King can go is into the space.  And it can't be column 1 or 7, since that would require a free Queen, and there isn't any.  So it must be column 6.  We can get through that c
olumn by first digging through to the free 6 as described earlier, and then playing: 5h from 6 to 4, 6d from 6 to 10, 5c from 6 to 10, 3-2s from 6 to 3, 4h from 6 to 4, 3-2s from 3 to 4, 7-5c from 6 to 1.  The tableau now looks like this:
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab (sp)\tab  --\tab  Qh\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  Ks\tab  Js\tab  --\tab  Jc\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  2s\tab 10c\tab  --\tab  8h\tab  --\tab  --\tab  Kh
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  As\tab \tab  As\tab  7h\tab  Kc\tab  --\tab  Qc
\par  Jc\tab  Kd\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  Qc\tab  Kc\tab  Jh
\par 10h\tab  9d\tab \tab  8d\tab \tab  8s\tab \tab  Jd\tab  Qh\tab  Js
\par  9c\tab  8d\tab \tab  7s\tab \tab \tab \tab  5s\tab  Jh\tab  3d
\par  8s\tab  7d\tab \tab  6s\tab \tab \tab \tab  4h\tab \tab  2c
\par  7d\tab  3h\tab \tab  5h\tab \tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab  Ad
\par  6h\tab  2h\tab \tab  4h\tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab  8h
\par  5d\tab  Ah\tab \tab  3s\tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab  7h
\par  3d\tab  2d\tab \tab  2s\tab \tab \tab \tab 10s\tab \tab  6d
\par  2d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  9s\tab \tab  5c
\par  Ah\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  8c
\par  9s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7s
\par  8c\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par  7c\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par  6c\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4c
\par  5c
\par 
\par Once again, it's time to make contingency plans. 
 If we just move the 9h-8s onto the 10c and the As onto the 2s, we could be in trouble if we turn up a King.  The lone space won't be sufficient for us to be able to move the stuff out of column 5 onto the King.  So we undo some of what we did in the cour
se of getting the free 6: Jh from 9 to 3, 10c from 5 to 3, Js from 5 to 9, 10c from 3 to 9, Jh from 3 to 5.  While we're at it, it can't hurt to move the 4c from 8 to 1, and in a moment we'll match the 8s with a 9s, too.  We now proceed: 8s from 6 to 3, 9
h from 6 to 9, 8-5c from 1 to 9, 8s from 3 to 1, and finally As from 6 to 4.  (Once again, preparation pays off; in the game where this took place, the card turned up was indeed a King.)
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par ?jT\\Ne61gU/3`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?P LF^Q/lLR4Y^cDjm3 XCkS/QENCCAV`O 3 ]:na6K<1F[LAV =Dil1W9>CgJN b P 4:[/eQW8\\afKl16  @J/8\\QA7o279 C.
\par 
\par Again, complete sets of clubs and hearts are available.  Without dealing any more cards or turning up any face-down cards, remove a set of clubs AND a set of hearts (not necessarily in that order).  Can you remove them in the other order?
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  8c\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab  5c\tab  Kc\tab  --\tab (sp)\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  Qh\tab  Qh\tab \tab \tab  --\tab \tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab  Jc\tab  Jh\tab \tab \tab  --\tab \tab  Kh
\par  --\tab  --\tab \tab 10c\tab 10c\tab \tab \tab  Kc\tab \tab  Qc
\par  Jc\tab  Kd\tab \tab  9c\tab  9h\tab \tab \tab  Qc\tab \tab  Jh
\par 10h\tab  9d\tab \tab  8c\tab  8d\tab \tab \tab  Jd\tab \tab  Js
\par  9s\tab  8d\tab \tab  7c\tab  7d\tab \tab \tab 10h\tab \tab  3d
\par  8s\tab  7d\tab \tab  6c\tab  6d\tab \tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  2c
\par  7s\tab  3h\tab \tab  5c\tab  5d\tab \tab \tab  8h\tab \tab  Ad
\par  6s\tab  2h\tab \tab  4c\tab  4h\tab \tab \tab  7h\tab \tab  8h
\par  5s\tab  Ah\tab \tab  3c\tab  3d\tab \tab \tab  6h\tab \tab  7h
\par  4s\tab  2d\tab \tab  2c\tab  2d\tab \tab \tab  5h
\par  3c\tab  Ah\tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab \tab \tab  4h
\par  2s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3h
\par  As
\par 
\par Solution:
\par 
\par The clubs look like the better bet, since the Jack through Ace are already assembled and there's a King-Queen in column 8.  Let's see what can be done.  Since there are no free 9's or 6's, we have to remove the first completed suit without the benefit of 
any additional spaces.  Since we are also short on free 4's, this means we can't use the Qc in column 10.  That seems okay; the one in column 8 looks eas
ier to get to anyhow.  All we have to do is move the Jd somewhere (along with the 10-3h).  There are no free Queens, so the Jack will have to move into the space (or some other Jack must move into the space to free up a Queen).  But we can't move the Jd a
nywhere while the hearts are there, and the only free Jack is in column 10 where we can't get at it.  We could move the 10-3h into the space, but then what do we do with the Jack?  Looks like the clubs aren't going to work after all.
\par 
\par Let's try the hearts
.  It looks like we'll have the same problem, since we have to move the 10c from column 5 somewhere else to clear off the K-Jh.  The only place we can move the 10c is the space, and to do that we have to do something about the 9h attached to the 10c.  Sin
ce we don't have any free 10's, what can we do?  The idea is to use the space to swap things around such that the sequences of a single suit are where we need them most.  We do it as follows:  First we get the 4h out of the way by moving 3-2d from 5 to 9,
 4
h from 5 to 6, and 3-2d from 9 to 6.  Then we move 8-5d from 5 to 9, 8-3h from 8 to 5, 8-5d from 9 to 8, 9-3h from 5 to 9, 9-Ac from 4 to 5, 9-3h from 9 to 4, 8-5d from 8 to 9, 8-3h from 4 to 8, 8-5d from 9 to 4 (we certainly have made a mess of all those
 nice clubs in column 4, haven't we?), 10-Ac from 5 to 9, 10-3h from 8 to 5, 10-Ac from 9 to 8.  Now we can move the Ah from 2 to 6, 2d from 2 to 9, and 2-Ah from 2 to 5 to complete the hearts.  The 2d comes out of the space and back to column 2, and remo
ving the hearts gives us a second space.  With two spaces we have no trouble straightening the clubs back out and completing a set.
\par 
\par Note that, rather than removing the completed set of clubs from column 8, we should pile a Q-Ac into column 7 and remove the suit from there.  We can always move the Kc from column 8 into the newly created space in column 7 if we wish, but by getting the 
space we keep our options open.  Note also that, had there been a 10d around, we might have been able to pull the same trick with the Jd in column 8 as we did with the 10c in column 5; since there wasn't, though, we had to go after the hearts first.

\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par C576XV@Ra`MgY>9XFSnF/^j?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?P 3>0f9NC7I^ H=Zn HUUgKl1YC4I^SDYR PFeM2 B1D[ C:^>LPV;] MAK\\1F[lAVk<Qm WSUHK<1EY h;^SDYo`Ti 4e\\.
\par 
\par In the tableau below, there are two deals (20 cards) remaining.  What do you do?
\par 
\par  Kh\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab  Qh\tab  Jc\tab  Qd\tab  Js\tab  9s\tab 10s\tab  6d
\par  Qh\tab 10h\tab  Qs\tab  Ac\tab 10c\tab  Jh\tab  Kc\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  Qs
\par  Jd\tab  9d\tab  8s\tab  Ac\tab  9h\tab 10h\tab  Qc\tab  Kc\tab  Qd\tab  Js
\par 10s\tab  8d\tab  7h\tab  4s\tab  8h\tab  6s\tab  Jc\tab  9h\tab  Jd
\par  9s\tab \tab  6h\tab  3h\tab \tab  5s\tab 10c\tab  8h\tab 10d
\par  8s\tab \tab  5h\tab \tab \tab  4h\tab  9c\tab  7h\tab  9d
\par  7s\tab \tab  4h\tab \tab \tab  3h\tab  8c\tab  6h\tab  8c
\par  6c\tab \tab  8d\tab \tab \tab  2h\tab  7c\tab  5d\tab  7s
\par  5c\tab \tab  7d\tab \tab \tab  As\tab  6c\tab  4s\tab  6s
\par  4c\tab \tab  6d\tab \tab \tab \tab  5c\tab \tab  5s
\par \tab \tab  5d\tab \tab \tab \tab  4c
\par \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab \tab  3c
\par \tab \tab  3d\tab \tab \tab \tab  2c
\par \tab \tab  2d\tab \tab \tab \tab  3s
\par \tab \tab  Ad
\par \tab \tab  7d
\par 
\par Solution:
\par 
\par If you grabbed at the opportunity to remove a set of clubs from column 7, shame on you!  Once you do that, you're stuc
k, and except for a little bit of "naturalising" (swapping cards so as to create longer runs in a single suit) you can do nothing but deal out another round.  In fact, it is possible to remove TWO suits, get two spaces, and straighten out almost all the s
uit changes before running out of steam.  But let's start by looking at the various options available to see what our reasoning should be.
\par 
\par Ignoring for the moment whether we can remove any suits, can we get a space?  Obviously, we can't get a space in an
y column containing a King, which leaves columns 4, 5, 6, and 10.  Column 5 is hopeless because the only free Queens (columns 3 and 4) cannot be reached without either two free 9's or two free deuces.  We have one free deuce (column 7) and both free 9's a
re trapped under a King.  Getting through any of the other columns requires a free King.  The King in column 8 cannot be reached without the temporary use of a free 6, and the only such 6 is under a Queen and thus requires another free King to reach.  On 
th
e other hand, we CAN reach the King in column 2.  But in order to do so we need temporary use of a free 10, which means we'll have had to move the 6s from column 6 onto our only free 7.  Thus, though we might be able to move the Qs out of column 10, we wo
uldn't have any place to move the 6d.  And, since we lack a free Queen on which to park the Jh from column 6, the free King won't be enough to get through that column.  Column 4 we've already identified as being hopeless.  Thus we conclude that we can't g
et a space without removing any suits.
\par 
\par Now what?  If we remove the clubs from column 7, all we get is a free Jack, which we have no use for, and which we can't move out of the way.  We can't remove a set of spades since we have no 2s showing, and likewise there's no Ah visible.  We can't remov
e diamonds (at least, not first) because we can't get to the Kd without a free 9 on which to park the 8c, and both free 9's are trapped under a Kc.  So it looks like the first order of business is to remove a set of clubs from column 8, if possible.

\par 
\par That's a big "if"; it looks rather hopeless.  Digging through to the Kc requires temporary use of a free 5 and 6, and permanent use of a free 10.  Well, a moment ago we said we might be able to reach the 6d in column 10.  Can we in fact do so?  Yes, if we
're VERY careful!  Once we uncover the Ks in column 2, we want to be able to move the Q-Js from column 10, so we can't afford to put the 10h from column 2 on top of them.  That means we have to find a 10s to move to colum
n 10, thereby freeing up a different Jack.  Such a 10 is in column 1, and we'd better move it BEFORE using up the free 7!  Without further ado, here we go: 6-4c from 1 to 3, 10-7s from 1 to 10, 3s from 7 to 8, As from 6 to 7, 4-2h from 6 to 9, 6-5s from 6
 to 10 (conveniently the correct suit), 9-8d from 2 to 6, 10h from 2 to 1, Q-5s from 10 to 2, 4-3s from 8 to 2, 5d from 8 to 10, 9-6h from 8 to 1, As from 7 to 9, Q-2c from 7 to 8, 3h from 4 to 3, 4s from 4 to 10, Ac from 4 to 8, and voila! we remove a se
t of clubs from column 8.  Here's the new tableau:
\par 
\par  Kh\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab  Qh\tab  Jc\tab  Qd\tab  Js\tab  9s\tab 10s\tab  6d
\par  Qh\tab  Qs\tab  Qs\tab  Ac\tab 10c\tab  Jh\tab  Kc\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  5d
\par  Jd\tab  Js\tab  8s\tab \tab  9h\tab 10h\tab \tab \tab  Qd\tab  4s
\par 10h\tab 10s\tab  7h\tab \tab  8h\tab  9d\tab \tab \tab  Jd
\par  9h\tab  9s\tab  6h\tab \tab \tab  8d\tab \tab \tab 10d
\par  8h\tab  8s\tab  5h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  9d
\par  7h\tab  7s\tab  4h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  8c
\par  6h\tab  6s\tab  8d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7s
\par \tab  5s\tab  7d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par \tab  4s\tab  6d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab  3s\tab  5d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4h
\par \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3h
\par \tab \tab  3d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2h
\par \tab \tab  2d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  As
\par \tab \tab  Ad
\par \tab \tab  7d
\par \tab \tab  6c
\par \tab \tab  5c
\par \tab \tab  4c
\par \tab \tab  3h
\par 
\par Unfortunately, though we've uncovered a free 9, there's no longer anything we 
can do with it, because we've added some crud to column 9, not to mention column 3.  Furthermore, if we're going to form a set of diamonds, we'd best not lose track of the stuff in column 3.  So let's go back to the very beginning and try again, this time
 keeping things a bit more available: 7d from 3 to 5, 6-4c from 1 to 5, 10-7s from 1 to 10, 3s from 7 to 8, As from 6 to 7, 4-2h from 6 to 9, 6-5s from 6 to 10, 9-8d from 2 to 6, 10h from 2 to 1, Q-5s from 10 to 2, 4-3s from 8 to 2, 5d from 8 to 10, 9-6h 
from 8 to 1, 4-2h from 9 to 10, As from 7 to 10, Q-2c from 7 to 8, 3h from 4 to 5, 4s from 4 to 9, Ac from 4 to 8, and again we are able to remove a set of clubs from column 8.  Now, however, the tableau looks like this:
\par 
\par  Kh\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab  Qh\tab  Jc\tab  Qd\tab  Js\tab  9s\tab 10s\tab  6d
\par  Qh\tab  Qs\tab  Qs\tab  Ac\tab 10c\tab  Jh\tab  Kc\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  5d
\par  Jd\tab  Js\tab  8s\tab \tab  9h\tab 10h\tab \tab \tab  Qd\tab  4h
\par 10h\tab 10s\tab  7h\tab \tab  8h\tab  9d\tab \tab \tab  Jd\tab  3h
\par  9h\tab  9s\tab  6h\tab \tab  7d\tab  8d\tab \tab \tab 10d\tab  2h
\par  8h\tab  8s\tab  5h\tab \tab  6c\tab \tab \tab \tab  9d\tab  As
\par  7h\tab  7s\tab  4h\tab \tab  5c\tab \tab \tab \tab  8c
\par  6h\tab  6s\tab  8d\tab \tab  4c\tab \tab \tab \tab  7s
\par \tab  5s\tab  7d\tab \tab  3h\tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par \tab  4s\tab  6d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab  3s\tab  5d\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab  4d
\par \tab \tab  3d
\par \tab \tab  2d
\par \tab \tab  Ad
\par 
\par Now we can get out a set of diamonds as follows: 7-4s from 9 to 6, 8c from 9 to 8, 8-Ad from 3 to 9, and remove the diamonds:
\par 
\par  Kh\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab  Qh\tab  Jc\tab  Qd\tab  Js\tab  9s\tab 10s\tab  6d
\par  Qh\tab  Qs\tab  Qs\tab  Ac\tab 10c\tab  Jh\tab  Kc\tab  9c\tab \tab  5d
\par  Jd\tab  Js\tab  8s\tab \tab  9h\tab 10h\tab \tab  8c\tab \tab  4h
\par 10h\tab 10s\tab  7h\tab \tab  8h\tab  9d\tab \tab \tab \tab  3h
\par  9h\tab  9s\tab  6h\tab \tab  7d\tab  8d\tab \tab \tab \tab  2h
\par  8h\tab  8s\tab  5h\tab \tab  6c\tab  7s\tab \tab \tab \tab  As
\par  7h\tab  7s\tab  4h\tab \tab  5c\tab  6s
\par  6h\tab  6s\tab \tab \tab  4c\tab  5s
\par \tab  5s\tab \tab \tab  3h\tab  4s
\par \tab  4s
\par \tab  3s
\par 
\par Well, looking better, but it's still not obvious where we
 can find a space.  Based on the "free" cards, there are only two possibilities: either we use the 10s in column 9 to uncover the 9s in column 8 and thus the Qs in column 3 and thus get a space in column 5, or we dig through column 6.  Column 5 doesn't wo
rk because we need temporary use of a free 7.  It may be that, by judicious advance planning, we could have arranged to have a clearer path through this column (e.g., by building column 1's hearts in column 5), but we needn't go back for a third try becau
se
 we can get through column 6 anyway.  We'll need temporary use of an 8, 10, and Queen, and getting the Queen will require permanent use of the 10, so we have to do things in the right order again.  Moreover, we have to be careful not to build anything new
 in column 6 that will be hard to move out later.  So we do it this way: 7-4s from 6 to 8, 9-8d from 6 to 9, 7-4s from 8 to 9, 9-6h from 1 to 6, 9-8c from 8 to 1, 7-4h from 3 to 1, 8s from 3 to 8, J-6h from 6 to 3, Q-3s from 2 to 7 (to prepare for later),
 and Qd from 6 to 2.  And here we are:
\par 
\par  Kh\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab  Qh\tab  Jc\tab (sp)\tab  Js\tab  9s\tab 10s\tab  6d
\par  Qh\tab  Qd\tab  Qs\tab  Ac\tab 10c\tab \tab  Kc\tab  8s\tab  9d\tab  5d
\par  Jd\tab \tab  Jh\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  Qs\tab \tab  8d\tab  4h
\par 10h\tab \tab 10h\tab \tab  8h\tab \tab  Js\tab \tab  7s\tab  3h
\par  9c\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab  7d\tab \tab 10s\tab \tab  6s\tab  2h
\par  8c\tab \tab  8h\tab \tab  6c\tab \tab  9s\tab \tab  5s\tab  As
\par  7h\tab \tab  7h\tab \tab  5c\tab \tab  8s\tab \tab  4s
\par  6h\tab \tab  6h\tab \tab  4c\tab \tab  7s
\par  5h\tab \tab \tab \tab  3h\tab \tab  6s
\par  4h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3s
\par 
\par Without detailing the exact moves from here on, the next steps should probably be something like this: Jc-3h from column 5 onto Qd in column 2, getting second space.  Swap 9-8d
 in column 9 with 9-8s in column 8 to form 10-4s in one chunk.  Move Kc-3s from column 7 into a space and get the space back by moving 10-4s onto Js.  Move Ac from column 4 into a space and get the space back by moving J-6h from column 3 onto Qh and J-4s 
onto Qs.  After a bit more "naturalising", you should have a tableau something like:
\par 
\par  Kh\tab  Ks\tab  Kh\tab (sp)\tab  9d\tab  Kc\tab  Qs\tab  Ac\tab (sp)\tab  6c
\par  Qh\tab  Qs\tab  Qh\tab \tab  8d\tab  Qd\tab  Js\tab \tab \tab  5c
\par  Jc\tab  Js\tab  Jh\tab \tab  7d\tab  Jd\tab 10s\tab \tab \tab  4c
\par 10c\tab 10s\tab 10h\tab \tab  6d\tab 10h\tab  9s
\par  9c\tab  9s\tab  9h\tab \tab  5d\tab  9h\tab  8s
\par  8c\tab  8s\tab  8h\tab \tab  4h\tab  8h\tab  7s
\par \tab  7s\tab  7h\tab \tab  3h\tab  7h\tab  6s
\par \tab  6s\tab  6h\tab \tab \tab  6h\tab  5s
\par \tab  5s\tab  5h\tab \tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab  4s\tab  4h
\par \tab  3s\tab  3h
\par \tab \tab  2h
\par \tab \tab  As
\par 
\par This is as much straightening out as you can accomplish with the cards available, so it's finally time to deal another round.  But first, you have to fill in the spaces (them's the rules!).  So how should you fill them in?  It's largely a matter of person
al preference, but one likely possibility is to move the Q-Jd into one space and the 10-6h into the other.  The reason for this is that there's a
lready a Queen in a space, so by creating a free King you have an extra chance at a space early in the next round.  Granted that you are almost certain to win at this point, but you might as well maximise your chances anyway!
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par 3^SD>\\QBCTSZ`2<mkL1Z/?j?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?P 0>3d9N@7I^SGYN 1Ti>Sd9Mc4IZ NM ZnhZM =1f9NF<Afh2Zni RRFd 51Mc6K^3D? lG6h@ G@/NZX>CfhOcV;\\] UH8.
\par 
\par 3^SD>\\QBCTSZ`2<mkL1Z/?j?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?Pe:O`5J_0EZo@Uj?P 0>3d9N@7I^SGYN 1Ti>Sd9Mc4IZ NM ZnhZM =1f9NF<Afh2Zni RRFd 51Ma4K^3D? lG6h@ G@/LXX>CfhOcV;\\] UH8.
\par 
\par Can a set of spades be removed WITHOUT first getting a space or dealing any more cards?  If so, how?  If not, prove it!  Would it make any difference if the Js in column 7 were swapped with the Jd in column 9?  (The second "garbage" line above is for this
 modified tableau.)  Finally, given that it can be 
done, remove a set of hearts (as usual, without dealing any more cards).  What is the minimum number of other suits that must be removed in order to do so?  Does the order of the two face-down cards matter?
\par 
\par  Kd\tab  Jc\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  Qh\tab  9d\tab  Qc\tab  Ks\tab  --\tab  Qs
\par  Qd\tab 10c\tab 10s\tab  8c\tab  Jc\tab  Qh\tab  Kc\tab  Js\tab  --\tab  Kc
\par  Jd\tab  9c\tab \tab  5s\tab 10h\tab  Jh\tab  Qs\tab  2d\tab  Jd\tab  3c
\par 10d\tab  8c\tab \tab  7d\tab  9h\tab  Ad\tab  Js\tab  Ac\tab  7d
\par  9d\tab  7c\tab \tab  Kd\tab  8h\tab \tab 10d\tab  7h\tab  6h
\par  8d\tab  6c\tab \tab \tab  6s\tab \tab  9s\tab \tab  5c
\par  7h\tab  5c\tab \tab \tab  5s\tab \tab  8s\tab \tab  4h
\par  6d\tab  4s\tab \tab \tab  4s\tab \tab  7s\tab \tab  3h
\par  5d\tab  3s\tab \tab \tab  3s\tab \tab  6s\tab \tab  2d
\par  4d\tab  2s\tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab  Qd\tab \tab  Ah
\par  3d\tab  As\tab \tab \tab  6h\tab \tab \tab \tab  4c
\par  2h\tab  As\tab \tab \tab  5d\tab \tab \tab \tab  3c
\par  Ah\tab \tab \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab \tab  2c
\par  8h\tab \tab \tab \tab  9s\tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7c
\par 
\par Solution:
\par 
\par This is a complicated one, so take a deep breath!  (If you didn't find it complicated, then perhaps you weren't thorough in your analysis.  Unless you (a) decided the spades could not be removed without getting a space, (b) realised that swapping the Jack
s affects this, and (c) considered the 9d in column 1 at some point in your proof, your analysis is incomplete.)
\par 
\par First let's consider the problem of putting together a set of spades.  We begin by finding all the pieces.  The only Ks is in column 8; the only Qs we can possibly get to without a space is in column 7.  (Actually, we shouldn't 
be too hasty; if we could remove a set of clubs without getting a space, we could reach the Qs in column 10.  But in moving the Qs we'd create a space, whether we needed it or not; and besides, the only Qc is in column 7 with the 
other Kc in the way.)  In digging to the Ks and Qs we'll reach both Jacks, so they shouldn't be a problem.  The 10s is in column 3, and the remaining spades are at various depths in columns 2, 5, and 7.  Can we pull all these cards together?
\par 
\par To get to the Ks we need a free 8, a free 3, and a free Queen (even though we may end up using the Js from column 8, we need some place to put it in order to get to the King).  The 8 in column 4 is inaccessible unless we can remove 
a set of diamonds, which in turn is impossible without a space since the 7d in column 4 is inaccessible and likewise for the 7d in column 9 due to the absence of free 5's.  But we have a free 8 in column 1 and another in column 
5 (if we can reach it), so there's no problem with that.  We also have exactly one free 3, and one free Queen.  So far so good.  Can we reach the Qs in column 7?  That requires a free King, which is no problem.  It also 
requires someplace to move the 9-6s and the 10d.  This should pose no problem either.  Note that, though we need a free 10 and a free Jack for this, we don't "use up" those free cards by moving the 9-6s and 10d, since we uncover 
another 10 and Jack to become new free cards.  However, notice that we're eventually going to have to reach the 5s in column 5, and this will use up the free 10.  So we have to dig through column 7 before that.  In fact, we 
have to move the 10d out of column 7 before moving the 9s out of column 5, because once we move the latter we'll have 9's on all the 10's, and the 10d won't be movable.  Or will it?  If we could put a 9d onto the 10d (freeing up 
a different 10), we could move the 9s onto the newly freed 10 and still be able to move the 10d.  Let's assume for the moment that this is impossible (we'll prove it later, but don't want to digress too far here).  To repeat, 
then, we need to move the 10d out of column 7 before moving the 9s out of column 5.  Where does the 10d go?  The free Jack in column 9 is inaccessible without a free 5, and the other free Jacks (in columns 6 and 8) each require 
a free deuce (even though the Jack in column 8 doesn't require us to use up the deuce permanently).  The only free deuce is in column 5, and we can't get to it without moving the 9s.  So we're stuck!
\par 
\par Now let's follow out that digression and make sure we can't get a 9d onto the 10d.  We certainly can't use the 9d in column 6, since that would create a space, which is verboten.  In order to reach the 9d in column 1, we'd have to 
move the 8h.  If we put it onto the 9s in column 5, we would then be unable to move that 9s later on (we have only one free 9 available; as we'll see later, we can't get to the one in column 3 without moving the 9s from column 
5).  If we moved the 8-6s from column 7 onto the 9s in column 5, and then moved the 8h onto the newly freed 9s, we wouldn't be able to move THAT 9s later, so we either wouldn't be able to reach the Qs (if we had left the 9s 
in column 7 when we put the 8h on it) or else we'd be unable to reach the 10s (if we had moved the 9s there first).  So, although we might be able to get the 9d from column 1 onto the 10d in column 7, by the time we did so we'd 
have made a hopeless mess out of the spades.  The conclusion from all this is that it's impossible to remove a set of spades without first getting a space.
\par 
\par Now, what if the Jacks were swapped as described?  In that case, we wouldn't need a free Jack on which to park the 10d; we could move the J-10d as a unit.  So the plan is to move the Qd out of column 7, followed by the 9-6s 
and J-10d.  Then we can use up the free 10 by moving the 9s out of column 5 and finish bringing together the spades.  The complete sequence is: Qd from 7 to 4, 9-6s from 7 to 3, J-10d from 7 to 4, 9s from 5 to 4, 5-4d from 5 to 3, 
7h from 8 to 1, 6h from 5 to 1, 5-4d from 3 to 1, 2c from 5 to 10, 5-3s from 5 to 3, Ac from 8 to 10, and now we have to be careful not to move the 2d from column 8 onto the spades in column 3, so instead we move 3s from 3 to 1, 
2d from 8 to 1, Js from 8 to 7, Q-Js from 7 to 8, 10-4s from 3 to 8, As from 2 to 1, and 3-As from 2 to 8.  Voila!
\par 
\par That was for warm-up; what about removing the set of hearts?  The first step is easy: we look around to see where all the hearts are and find that the King and 5 are missing.  Hence these must be the two face-down cards.  It 
remains to be seen whether their order is significant.
\par 
\par In the course of discussing the spades, we observed that we cannot remove a set of diamonds or clubs without first getting a space, and we also proved the same thing for the spades.  Since we can't get past the 4c in column 9 
without a space, it looks like our first order of business is getting one.  Columns 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are out, for obvious reasons.  Column 3 looks like the best bet, but in order to move the 10s we need a free Jack, and that 
in turn requires a free deuce, and THAT requires that we move the 9s from column 5 onto the 10s.  Thus, by the time we manage to move the 10s, we'll no longer have a free 10 on which to put the 9h to get the space.  Column 6 is similarly hopeless; in or
der to move the Ad we need to use up the free 10.  Column 2 is out of the question since there's no place to put the 4-As.  That leaves column 5.
\par 
\par To get through column 5 we need to use up a 10, two 7's, and a King, and we also need temporary use of a 6, 3, Jack, and Queen.  Getting the Jack will be no trouble once we've gotten to the 2c, and getting the 6 just needs another 
free King, which we can get from either column 8 or column 10.  Let's use the one in column 10; the only thing we have to watch out for is that if we wait too long to uncover that King (in particular, if we wait until we need it to 
put the Qh on to clear the space), we may find the 3c is immovable due to our having moved stuff onto it in the meanwhile.  So we have to move the 3c onto the 4d at some early opportunity.  Here we go: 9s from 5 to 3, Qd from 7 to 
4, 5-4d from 5 to 7, 6h from 5 to 8, 2c from 5 to 10, 6-3s from 5 to 9, 3-2c from 10 to 7, Ad from 6 to 7, 10-8h from 5 to 6, Jc from 5 to 4, and finally Qh from 5 to 10.  The tableau now looks like this:
\par 
\par  Kd\tab  Jc\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab (sp)\tab  9d\tab  Qc\tab  Ks\tab  --\tab  Qs
\par  Qd\tab 10c\tab 10s\tab  8c\tab \tab  Qh\tab  Kc\tab  Js\tab  --\tab  Kc
\par  Jd\tab  9c\tab  9s\tab  5s\tab \tab  Jh\tab  Qs\tab  2d\tab  Jd\tab  Qh
\par 10d\tab  8c\tab \tab  7d\tab \tab 10h\tab  Js\tab  Ac\tab  7d
\par  9d\tab  7c\tab \tab  Kd\tab \tab  9h\tab 10d\tab  7h\tab  6h
\par  8d\tab  6c\tab \tab  Qd\tab \tab  8h\tab  9s\tab  6h\tab  5c
\par  7h\tab  5c\tab \tab  Jc\tab \tab \tab  8s\tab \tab  4h
\par  6d\tab  4s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7s\tab \tab  3h
\par  5d\tab  3s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s\tab \tab  2d
\par  4d\tab  2s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5d\tab \tab  Ah
\par  3d\tab  As\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab  4c
\par  2h\tab  As\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab  3c
\par  Ah\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab  2c
\par  8h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ad\tab \tab  Ac
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3s
\par 
\par Where do we go from here?  Well, we're trying to minimise the number of suits (other than hearts) removed, so let's see if we can get the hearts out right away.  We would need to dig through column 9; to do that we would have to 
move the 4-Ac into the space (or onto a free 5; we'll come back to this), after which we would have no place to move the 4-3h.  If we could get a free 5 without using up the space, we might fare better, but the only free 5 is in 
column 4, and to get to it we must put the Kd into the space (remember we're assuming we're not going to remove any other suits) and we have no free 10 with which to restore the space via column 4.  Nor can we get any more 
spaces; all columns contain Kings or 9's or Aces, and there are no free 10's or deuces, so digging through any pile would cost us the space, and would get us at most one space in return.  Thus we conclude that we must remove another 
suit before the hearts.  Which suit is it to be?
\par 
\par It can't be clubs.  To reach the 10c (in column 2) we must move the first As into the space, since there are no free deuces anywhere.  Having done so, we have no place to move the 4-As.  (We have already noted that getting to the 
free 5 costs us the space.)  On the other hand, we CAN remove either diamonds or spades.  (If you thought you HAD to remove the diamonds, you might want to take a moment to study the above tableau and figure out how to remove the 
spades instead.)  Let's look at the diamonds first.  Most of them are already in column 1; all we need to dredge up are the 7, 2, and Ace.  We'll ignore the diamonds in column 9 (we know we can't reach the 7d there, and the 2d is 
less accessible than that in column 8), and proceed thusly: 7-6h from 8 to 6, Ac from 8 to 5, Ad from 7 to 8, Ac from 5 to 7, 8h from 1 to 3, 2-Ah from 1 to 9, 2-Ad from 8 to 1, Jc from 4 to 10, K-Qd from 4 to 5, 6-Ad from 1 to 4, 
7h from 1 to 3, and 7-Ad from 4 to 1.  Removing the diamonds from column 1 would give us this position:
\par 
\par (sp)\tab  Jc\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  9d\tab  Qc\tab  Ks\tab  --\tab  Qs
\par \tab 10c\tab 10s\tab  8c\tab  Qd\tab  Qh\tab  Kc\tab  Js\tab  --\tab  Kc
\par \tab  9c\tab  9s\tab  5s\tab \tab  Jh\tab  Qs\tab \tab  Jd\tab  Qh
\par \tab  8c\tab  8h\tab \tab \tab 10h\tab  Js\tab \tab  7d\tab  Jc
\par \tab  7c\tab  7h\tab \tab \tab  9h\tab 10d\tab \tab  6h
\par \tab  6c\tab \tab \tab \tab  8h\tab  9s\tab \tab  5c
\par \tab  5c\tab \tab \tab \tab  7h\tab  8s\tab \tab  4h
\par \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab \tab  6h\tab  7s\tab \tab  3h
\par \tab  3s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s\tab \tab  2d
\par \tab  2s\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5d\tab \tab  Ah
\par \tab  As\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab  4c
\par \tab  As\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab  3c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab  2c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab  Ac
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ah
\par 
\par Now, before we pursue this any further, let's go back and see how we can remove the spades instead.  If we try to do so in the straightforward manner, we run into trouble.  Presumably we would uncover the Ks in column 8 by 
moving the 7-6h onto an 8 and the 2d-Ac onto a 3 (probably swapping the Ac/Ad as we did in the previous paragraph).  We would then move the Js out of column 8 and bring in a pile of spades from columns 7 (Q-J, 8-6), 3 (10-9), 
and 9 (5-3), piling them all onto the King.  But then we'd be unable to get to the 2s in column 2.  (Once we moved the first As into the space, we'd be unable to swap the 2-As with the 2-Ad (or whatever) blocking off the 3s in 
column 8.) The way out of this bind is to wait until the last minute to move anything onto the 3s, such that when we do it's the 2-As, and thus we won't need the space afterward.  Here's how we can do it: 7-6h from 8 to 6, Ac from 
8 to 5, Ad from 7 to 8, Ac from 5 to 7, 3-Ac from 7 to 5, 5-4d from 7 to 6, 3-Ac from 5 to 6, 8-6s from 7 to 3, 9s from 7 to 5, 10d from 7 to 4, 9s from 5 to 4, 10-6s from 3 to 7, 5-3s from 9 to 7.  Now we're ready to go: As from 2 
to 5, 2-As from 2 to 7, 2-Ad from 8 to 2, Js from 8 to 10, and Q-As from 7 to 8.  Removing the suit gives this tableau:
\par 
\par  Kd\tab  Jc\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  As\tab  9d\tab  Qc\tab (sp)\tab  --\tab  Qs
\par  Qd\tab 10c\tab \tab  8c\tab \tab  Qh\tab  Kc\tab \tab  --\tab  Kc
\par  Jd\tab  9c\tab \tab  5s\tab \tab  Jh\tab \tab \tab  Jd\tab  Qh
\par 10d\tab  8c\tab \tab  7d\tab \tab 10h\tab \tab \tab  7d\tab  Js
\par  9d\tab  7c\tab \tab  Kd\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab \tab  6h
\par  8d\tab  6c\tab \tab  Qd\tab \tab  8h\tab \tab \tab  5c
\par  7h\tab  5c\tab \tab  Jc\tab \tab  7h\tab \tab \tab  4h
\par  6d\tab  4s\tab \tab 10d\tab \tab  6h\tab \tab \tab  3h
\par  5d\tab  3s\tab \tab  9s\tab \tab  5d\tab \tab \tab  2d
\par  4d\tab  2d\tab \tab \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab  Ah
\par  3d\tab  Ad\tab \tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab \tab  4c
\par  2h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab \tab  3c
\par  Ah\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab \tab  2c
\par  8h\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  7c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  6s
\par 
\par Now, which of these two positions (resulting from removing either diamonds or spades) is better with regard to our ultimate goal -- the hearts?  Well, in the tableau immediately above (with the spades removed), we still can't get 
through column 9 (same reasoning as before), nor can we get any more spaces (column 2 is the only chance, but we can't get through it).  And since we can't get through column 2, we can't remove a set of clubs yet, so all we can 
do is remove a set of diamonds.  If that's the case, we might as well have removed the diamonds first and then seen whether we could do without removing the spades!  So we'll use the earlier tableau and proceed from there.
\par 
\par Now we can dig through column 9 and turn up a new card, but we'll lose the space in the process, because we've got only one free 8 left.  Furthermore, to get to that free 8 we must use up our only free 6, so no matter which 
heart gets turned up we won't be able to move it, nor can it possibly get us the space back.  Furthermore, we still can't get any additional spaces (short of removing more suits) due to the lack of free 10's and deuces.  Thus we 
can't get out a set of hearts yet, but we're getting closer!
\par 
\par What next?  We can now remove either spades or clubs.  Either way we end up getting a new space.  Removing the clubs has the advantage that it digs all the way to the 4-Ac in column 9, so let's try that approach.  We'll start by 
dredging out the Qc: 3-Ac from 7 to 1, 5-4d from 7 to 6, 3-Ac from 1 to 6, 9-6s from 7 to 1, 10d from 7 to 10, 9-6s from 1 to 10, Js from 8 to 5, Q-Js from 7 to 8, Kc from 7 to 1, Qc from 7 to 1.  Now we finish the job: As from 
2 to 7, 4-As from 2 to 4, J-5c from 2 to 1, 2-Ah from 9 to 2, 6-3s from 9 to 3, 2-Ah from 2 to 3, 5-As from 4 to 10, 7c from 9 to 4, 4-Ac from 9 to 1.  Removing the clubs from column 1 yields:
\par 
\par (sp)\tab (sp)\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  9d\tab  As\tab  Ks\tab  --\tab  Qs
\par \tab \tab 10s\tab  8c\tab  Qd\tab  Qh\tab \tab  Qs\tab  --\tab  Kc
\par \tab \tab  9s\tab  7c\tab  Js\tab  Jh\tab \tab  Js\tab  Jd\tab  Qh
\par \tab \tab  8h\tab \tab \tab 10h\tab \tab \tab  7d\tab  Jc
\par \tab \tab  7h\tab \tab \tab  9h\tab \tab \tab  6h\tab 10d
\par \tab \tab  6s\tab \tab \tab  8h\tab \tab \tab  5c\tab  9s
\par \tab \tab  5s\tab \tab \tab  7h\tab \tab \tab  4h\tab  8s
\par \tab \tab  4s\tab \tab \tab  6h\tab \tab \tab  3h\tab  7s
\par \tab \tab  3s\tab \tab \tab  5d\tab \tab \tab  2d\tab  6s
\par \tab \tab  2h\tab \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab  Ah\tab  5s
\par \tab \tab  Ah\tab \tab \tab  3c\tab \tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab \tab \tab  3s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab \tab \tab  2s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  As
\par 
\par Surely two spaces will suffice!  Except that now we've used up the last of the free 8's, so both the 7d and the Jd will cost us spaces (we can move the Jd onto the Qs in column 10, but that too costs us a space).  If the 5h turns 
up, we'll be stuck, but what if we get the Kh?  Then, with a bit of judicious planning, we can move the Qs out of column 10 onto the Kh.  (The planning involves putting a Js on the Qs so the Jd can go elsewhere.)  But the lone 
space won't be enough to get the Kh off of column 9, once the Q-Js are placed with it.  So we must plan even further and leave a Q-Jh to be picked up by the Kh.  This is our only hope of getting the hearts out (without removing 
the spades), so let's see how it works out: 9-As from 10 to 1, 10d from 10 to 5, 9-As from 1 to 5, 3-Ac from 6 to 1, 5-4d from 6 to 2, 10-6h from 6 to 8, 3-Ac from 1 to 2, Jc from 10 to 1, Jh from 6 to 10, Jc from 1 to 6.  Now 
we've got the Jh with the Qh that we can move.  (We can't move the Qh in column 6 since that would cost us a space.)  Continuing: 5-As from 5 to 8, 3-Ac from 2 to 1, 5-4d from 2 to 5, 3-Ac from 1 to 5, Ah from 9 to 1, 2d from 
9 to 2, 2-Ah from 3 to 9, 2d from 2 to 3, Ah from 1 to 3, 4-Ah from 9 to 1, 5c from 9 to 2, 6h from 9 to 4, 5c from 2 to 4, 4-Ah from 1 to 4, Q-Jh from 10 to 1, Kc from 10 to 2, Qs from 10 to 2, 7d from 9 to 10, Jd from 9 to 2, 
and we assume the Kh is turned up.  We move Q-Jh from 1 to 9 and reach the following position:
\par 
\par (sp)\tab  Kc\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  9d\tab  As\tab  Ks\tab  --\tab  7d
\par \tab  Qs\tab 10s\tab  8c\tab  Qd\tab  Qh\tab \tab  Qs\tab  Kh
\par \tab  Jd\tab  9s\tab  7c\tab  Js\tab  Jc\tab \tab  Js\tab  Qh
\par \tab \tab  8h\tab  6h\tab 10d\tab \tab \tab 10h\tab  Jh
\par \tab \tab  7h\tab  5c\tab  9s\tab \tab \tab  9h
\par \tab \tab  6s\tab  4h\tab  8s\tab \tab \tab  8h
\par \tab \tab  5s\tab  3h\tab  7s\tab \tab \tab  7h
\par \tab \tab  4s\tab  2h\tab  6s\tab \tab \tab  6h
\par \tab \tab  3s\tab  Ah\tab  5d\tab \tab \tab  5s
\par \tab \tab  2d\tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab  4s
\par \tab \tab  Ah\tab \tab  3c\tab \tab \tab  3s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c\tab \tab \tab  2s
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac\tab \tab \tab  As
\par 
\par Unfortunately, despite our best preparations, we will be unable to combine the hearts once we move the K-Jh into the space and turn up the 5h.  We could go back and try removing the spades instead of the clubs earlier, but it 
wouldn't help.  We must remove both the spades AND the clubs (and the diamonds) before removing the hearts.  We can't get the spades together starting with the above tableau -- we can't get through column 3 with only 
one space.  So we'll back up to the previous tableau and proceed thusly: 2-Ah from 3 to 1, 6-3s from 3 to 4, 8-7h from 3 to 2, 10-9s from 3 to 8, 8-7h from 2 to 3, Ah from 9 to 2, 2d from 9 to 4, Ah from 2 to 4, 2-Ah from 1 to 9, 
8-As from 10 to 8, and remove the spades.  We now have this:
\par 
\par (sp)\tab (sp)\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  9d\tab  As\tab (sp)\tab  --\tab  Qs
\par \tab \tab  8h\tab  8c\tab  Qd\tab  Qh\tab \tab \tab  --\tab  Kc
\par \tab \tab  7h\tab  7c\tab  Js\tab  Jh\tab \tab \tab  Jd\tab  Qh
\par \tab \tab \tab  6s\tab \tab 10h\tab \tab \tab  7d\tab  Jc
\par \tab \tab \tab  5s\tab \tab  9h\tab \tab \tab  6h\tab 10d
\par \tab \tab \tab  4s\tab \tab  8h\tab \tab \tab  5c\tab  9s
\par \tab \tab \tab  3s\tab \tab  7h\tab \tab \tab  4h
\par \tab \tab \tab  2d\tab \tab  6h\tab \tab \tab  3h
\par \tab \tab \tab  Ah\tab \tab  5d\tab \tab \tab  2h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4d\tab \tab \tab  Ah
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ac
\par 
\par With THREE spaces we should have no trouble!  Then again, considering how careful we had to be to even come close using two spaces, perhaps we should be cautious!  If we just start dumping things into spaces we may find we 
don't have enough spaces to move things around once we know what we want moved.  So we'll start by gathering what hearts we have: 3-Ac from 6 to 1, 5-4d from 6 to 2, 6h from 6 to 3, 5-4d from 2 to 3, 3-Ac from 1 to 3, 4-Ah 
from 9 to 1, 5c from 9 to 2, 6h from 9 to 6, 5c from 2 to 6, 4-Ah from 1 to 6.  Now, if we stuff the 7d and Jd from column 9 into a pair of spaces, and the 5h turns up, we can move 4-Ah from 6 to 9, 5c from 6 to 8, 5-Ah from 9 to 
6, and Q-Ah from 6 onto the newly revealed Kh.  But if the Kh is the first card turned up, we'll be in rough shape.  So let's prepare for that contingency just as we did in our earlier attempt.  We move 9s from 10 to 1, 
10d from 10 to 5, 9s from 1 to 5, 4-Ah from 6 to 1, 5c from 6 to 2, J-6h from 6 to 8, Jc from 10 to 6, J-6h from 8 to 10, 10-6h from 10 to 6, 5c from 2 to 6, 4-Ah from 1 to 6, Q-Jh from 10 to 8, Kc from 10 to 1, Qs from 10 to 1, 7d 
from 9 to 10, and here we are:
\par 
\par  Kc\tab (sp)\tab  9h\tab  9c\tab  Kd\tab  9d\tab  As\tab  Qh\tab  --\tab  7d
\par  Qs\tab \tab  8h\tab  8c\tab  Qd\tab  Qh\tab \tab  Jh\tab  --
\par \tab \tab  7h\tab  7c\tab  Js\tab  Jc\tab \tab \tab  Jd
\par \tab \tab  6h\tab  6s\tab 10d\tab 10h
\par \tab \tab  5d\tab  5s\tab  9s\tab  9h
\par \tab \tab  4d\tab  4s\tab \tab  8h
\par \tab \tab  3c\tab  3s\tab \tab  7h
\par \tab \tab  2c\tab  2d\tab \tab  6h
\par \tab \tab  Ac\tab  Ah\tab \tab  5c
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  4h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  3h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  2h
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  Ah
\par 
\par No matter which heart is revealed when we move the Jd from 9 to 1, we will be able to finish combining the hearts.
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par 
\par Ae[bFBe`0XjJA71dJjS2;b0Q9[YT01:>4HQoE;]7OIIXJIB432/DZcKfD>>CSO_H>Zgi[ed:5NPgamO?=mKT\\gBR^c=Gd@O^@TM>]QdcD :gKni/^ f15K/8 LRb;/e 8f=HX/D UPH2/> J?B>/H Pa?n0/o ggKE/R oQfL/j ?`9Al/^.
\par 
\par In case you're wondering what it takes to finish a game with all eight completed suits still sitting in the tableau, here's a deck (again, encountered in actual play) that makes it possible.  The "solution" is left as an exercise.
\par 
\par This deck can also be useful as a confidence boost for novices who are having trouble winning at all, since it is relatively easy to win from this position if you are willing to remove suits as you complete them.
\par 
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --\tab  --
\par  --\tab  9s\tab  Kd\tab  --\tab  4s\tab  8h\tab  --\tab  Qd\tab  7s\tab  --
\par 10d\tab \tab \tab  Jd\tab \tab \tab  Qh\tab \tab \tab  9d
\par 
\par ===========================================================================
\par [Copyright (c) 1989, Donald R. Woods and Sun Microsystems, Inc.]
\par 
\par 
\par }